# Reformed Educational Systems Focused on Learning

Most public education systems (and most private ones as well) are not
[focused on learning](https://youtu.be/GFD37HvGx6k?t=181). They are
focused on meeting quotas, perception management, making money, pushing
people through, and glorified child-care. The most motivated teachers in
such a system simply cannot accomplish true learning in their students.
When learning happens it comes at the cost of dependency on the teacher
and system instead of producing true autodidactic individuals ready to
face the world.

Teachers who have gone through the formal education to become one either
love or hate that when I say this. I'm convinced the science surrounding
education is seriously flawed and focused on the wrong outcomes. Ken
Robinson agrees. This is why I want nothing to do with traditional
academia and teacher certification. It turns well-intentioned teachers
into drones with their aspirations burned out by an objectively failing
system with upside-down priorities.

The path to reform means significantly changing the culture of
education. It means turning teachers into mentors and learning
facilitators, not subject-matter experts who have *actual* experience.
It means obliterating ego and promoting empathy in the learning
environment. It means having SMEs and facilitators working together. The
SMEs produce the content, challenges, and activities. The facilitators
organize learning lab environments where *the learner is in charge of
their own learning*. Responsibility for learning is placed on the
learner from the very beginning rather than creating an antagonistic
teacher versus student approach we have today. We need the courage to
work toward motivational skills and let those unwilling to learn simply
not learn, to hold them back for as long as it takes until they decide
on their own terms to begin and own their learning instead of trying to
*force* them to learn.

These techniques have been proven successful over and over again in
environments where the traditional systems gets completely out of the
way, from the groups of "lost learners" who are essentially thrown into
detention during school all day, to the "gifted and talented" deemed to
smart for the current system. Both of *those* systems flourish because
the teacher is not a teacher, but a motivator, a facilitator, and yes,
even a responsible friend.

All of the plights of 2020 can be traced back to a lack of good
learning. Those who learn and love to learn discover empathy and
facilitators working in this way *must* be above all experts in
emotional intelligence and empathy, councilors more than teachers. Most
people who remember their "best" teacher will recall all of these
qualities in that person who operated this way within a seriously broken
system.

